okay yeah but welcome finally we I think
we got sorted out the the issues  and
we got sorted out the the issues and
yeah welcome to this week's
Stellar developer meeting and  today I
Stellar developer meeting and today I
we have two presentations we have
Chris that's going to to talk about P
keys and we have S out who going to talk
about increasing sorond limits so I will
just  I'll just let you  take it
just I'll just let you take it
from here Chris  do you need to share
from here Chris do you need to share
your screen yeah yeah let me do that
okay
cool is that coming
through yeah I think so
right okay okay yes I guess I can't let
me see let me check the comments yes
okay cool thanks Elliot cool yeah so
thanks everyone thanks for bearing with
us  through  you know some technical
us through you know some technical
difficulties here  but yeah let's get
difficulties here but yeah let's get
go ahead and get started  so this
go ahead and get started so this
presentation here is  a subset of a
presentation here is a subset of a
presentation I gave at Devcon in Bangkok
at several events including multichain
day and  funding the commons  which
day and funding the commons which
is a a public goods organization which
is really cool  but basically we're
is really cool but basically we're
talking about  past Keys could kind of
talking about past Keys could kind of
like I would say a revolution and user
experience for web three onboarding
so yeah let's go ahead and jump in so
thank you than you all for joining
future stack smart contract wallets and
pass keys on
Stellar  yeah so so basically  yeah
Stellar yeah so so basically yeah
my name is Chris anatalia I'm a
developer advocate for  for Stellar
developer advocate for for Stellar
development foundation  and let's go
development foundation and let's go
ahead and just dive in so yeah we're
just GNA give you a quick intro to like
the what and why of p pasis and then we
dive into this really cool project
that Tyler built  which is basically a
that Tyler built which is basically a
typescript library that helps abstract
away the complexity of integrating pass
Keys into your D app and then we're
going to actually go through a reference
application  where we actually
application where we actually
implement this pass Keys kit  and just
implement this pass Keys kit and just
kind kind of demo the functionality it
exposes to you  so first off why pass
exposes to you so first off why pass
Keys  well everyone knows passwords
Keys well everyone knows passwords
are terrible right but they've reached
such a level of terribleness
that it's it's hard to  ignore right
that it's it's hard to ignore right
so I mean other than  you know packs
so I mean other than you know packs
and leaks of  of password databases
and leaks of of password databases
you know between that and just the
requirements that users find very hard
they basically users aren't most
users are not following best practice of
operational security  just because
operational security just because
it's difficult right  so pass keys to
it's difficult right so pass keys to
the rescue right so pass keys are
basically faster easier and safer right
and they kind of get rid of you know
you know having to bage all these
different passwords and having like it
secure onetime passwords  sent to you
secure onetime passwords sent to you
via SMS right so pass Keys basically are
enabled by  well what's called a
enabled by well what's called a
secure Enclave on I believe iPhone
devices but basically you have a special
chip  that can do secure cryptographic
chip that can do secure cryptographic
operations right  so so basically your
operations right so so basically your
device kind of Acts almost like a UB ke
not exactly but basically your device
acts as  your source of authentication
acts as your source of authentication
right  so you're able to leverage
right so you're able to leverage
something like  fingerprint or  face
something like fingerprint or face
ID  to be able to register and sign in
ID to be able to register and sign in
for accounts as you see here happening
basically yeah you can either use
your device or you can use something
like a password manager to manage your
pass Keys  but basically yeah no more
pass Keys but basically yeah no more
13 character passwords and all all of
that jumping through all those hoops and
ultimately it is safer you know because
it's not stored somewhere in a database
that a hacker could break into
right the pass Keys kit is  this
right the pass Keys kit is this
really great  typescript  library
really great typescript library
that you can pull into your project
using we recommend you use  PP npm
using we recommend you use PP npm
for  dependency management but yeah
for dependency management but yeah
basically it's a great Library  you
basically it's a great Library you
can find it at GitHub kale Pass Key kit
and basically gives you all the
functionality you need to create and
manage  Stellar smart
wallets so like I said before you can
find it  you just add it as a
find it you just add it as a
dependency to your project  if you
dependency to your project if you
scan that QR code it'll bring you to the
repo if you want to check it out
but it's all GitHub you know you can
just Google it as well  so yeah
just Google it as well so yeah
definitely check it out it's  it's
definitely check it out it's it's
it's really cool but yeah we we'll go
through it here  so basically the pass
through it here so basically the pass
key kit allows you to implement signers
you know various interactions with
your mall with your  wallet  and
your mall with your wallet and
also  really cool things like  like
also really cool things like like
policy signers which allow you to Grant
explicit permissions  to a signer
explicit permissions to a signer
a functions as both a client and
server Side Library  with launch Tu
server Side Library with launch Tu
on the server side that kind of helps
abstract away the complexity of
submitting
transactions  to the
transactions to the
network right so so the client lib is
Pass Key kit and the server lib is Pass
Key
server and  you can check at Super
server and you can check at Super
Peach  as another reference
Peach as another reference
implementation
so if we want to check out  Pass Key
so if we want to check out Pass Key
kit a little bit right so if you jump
into the actual Pass Key kit repo and
you go to sour kit. TS you can see
like kind of the nelt and bolts of how
it works right you pass in your your RPC
URL  you know the static Network
URL you know the static Network
keyphrase  and then you know it kind
keyphrase and then you know it kind
of It kind of set up all the stuff for
you right and then it'll expose these
functions like create wallet
that basically you know allows you to
perform all this functionality with
with basically just a function call
yeah so this is like the pass key kit
client side code  and with your  in
client side code and with your in
your actual application so when you
initialize your passy kit right you
import it and then U you create an
instance of it right  pass in your RPC
instance of it right pass in your RPC
URL  of the public node you're using
URL of the public node you're using
and then you know as a seller
developer you know  each You Know M
developer you know each You Know M
net test net feature net they have this
static nwk Network passphrase  you
static nwk Network passphrase you
know that you pass in for instance test
SDF Network semicolon September 2015 and
then  and then the deployed  Factory
then and then the deployed Factory
contract address
which is  the the factory that
which is the the factory that
generates  your spart contract wallet
generates your spart contract wallet
right  yeah then that will be have to
right yeah then that will be have to
that will have to be deployed
beforehand on your selected
net  taking a quick look at the P key
net taking a quick look at the P key
server if you dig it to server
server. TS  you can see  basically
server. TS you can see basically
it's kind of the same thing you know
you're taking it  launch tube URL
you're taking it launch tube URL
depending on which if you're on M dat or
test that  then you also need a jot
test that then you also need a jot
token which is u a Json web token which
kind of authenticates use launch tube
we have self-served for that on testet I
believe  but for main that I think you
believe but for main that I think you
need to reach out to the team
but yeah so when setting out the pass
key server  in your application right
key server in your application right
you pass in your RPC URL you pass in
your lodg tube URL and you pass in your
Lodge tube jot token
right so in this case we're importing it
from  a EnV file  so so that stuff
from a EnV file so so that stuff
will just be sitting in your local .v
config
file  so if you want to follow along
file so if you want to follow along
and you want to check out the demo app I
built you can  scan this QR code or
built you can scan this QR code or
you could find it at analo CS pass Keys
kit Stellar reference
implementation and yeah we we'll
we'll said that out later too if you
don't catch it
here  so basically the use cases we're
here so basically the use cases we're
going to cover is creating a wallet
signing into existing
wallet  a smart contract
wallet a smart contract
invocation adding a ed25519 signer and
then adding a policy signer and also
talking about some of those
nuances so if you follow along with
with the application if you want to pull
it down and just run it locally
basically here is the first example
right so what we're doing here is we're
creating a new wallet right  and then
creating a new wallet right and then
that wallet actually gets created as a
deployed contract to testet as you can
see here  right and then within the
see here right and then within the
date of that contract you see the cider
so basically you you click create pass
create  new Pass key right and then
create new Pass key right and then
in a browser  you I you can either use
in a browser you I you can either use
your fingerprint on your MacBook or
password manager right  and then the
password manager right and then the
the factory contract creates that smart
contract that you can see here you can
see in  Stell expert
see in Stell expert
everything that's getting created
right so yeah just going through a
couple times so you so you see it all
you know you create the transaction you
that gets submitted by launch tube right
the factory contract creates your
spart contract  wallet right  and
spart contract wallet right and
then
and that it's here for you to use  in
and that it's here for you to use in
the future that's linked to your pass
key on your
device right so  digging into that
device right so digging into that
code a little bit so so  the front end
code a little bit so so the front end
calls this create wallet function right
so we name the wallet we and then
we call  passy Wallet create wallet
we call passy Wallet create wallet
right  we configured this object
right we configured this object
earlier  at the top of the screen
earlier at the top of the screen
right with the RPC URL and all those
parameters right  so we invoke that
parameters right so we invoke that
create wallet  function and then we
create wallet function and then we
get the assemble transaction right and
then we use the pass key kit server to
send that transaction right so just
going through it again  right so we we
going through it again right so we we
get the the what the wallet should be
named we pass in  the key ID the
named we pass in the key ID the
contract ID oh no we we get back all
these fields what we call  the create
these fields what we call the create
wallet function right so  we print out
wallet function right so we print out
the transaction that we just created and
then we use a pass key kit server to
actually send that transaction and then
we log the response of that transaction
right  and then you know all all
right and then you know all all
seller Cy to be  funded so we fund
seller Cy to be funded so we fund
that wallet as a final
step  so also so if you want to so
step so also so if you want to so
when we print out the transaction info
you guys actually grab the the envelope
xdr and then you can go to laboratory.
sell.com  and if you want to dig into
sell.com and if you want to dig into
a lot of the details of what's happening
in that transaction you can use lab.
stellar.org  and kind of dig into some
stellar.org and kind of dig into some
of the  the nitty-gritty of the oper
of the the nitty-gritty of the oper
the actual operations being executed
yeah that that's available at lab.
stellar.org
xdr  and in this reference application
xdr and in this reference application
that  envelope X gets printed out in
that envelope X gets printed out in
the console  for you to grab
right so when signing into an existing
pass Keys wallet right  You can either
pass Keys wallet right You can either
use a key ID or  you the browser could
use a key ID or you the browser could
promp you right  and then so when you
promp you right and then so when you
sign into that existing wallet that's
existing smart wallet pass Keys wallet
that you created  you're able to do
that you created you're able to do
that  just using  your fingerprint
that just using your fingerprint
for instance right  and then yeah so
for instance right and then yeah so
it's like a really simple user
experience you log in  here's the
experience you log in here's the
smart contract  that we created
smart contract that we created
previously that represents your pasy
smart wallet  and yeah it's it's way
smart wallet and yeah it's it's way
simpler than managing a a 12 12w
passphrase you know much much lighter
much less friction onboarding new users
right right  so yeah you know a lot of
right right so yeah you know a lot of
this functionality is similar right so
to sign in very similar to  creating a
to sign in very similar to creating a
wallet right  you either  type it
wallet right you either type it
you either pass it the key ID or it'll
prop you  for either your fingerprint
prop you for either your fingerprint
or your U password manager managed Pass
key right  and then all you do is you
key right and then all you do is you
connect to that pass key  that you
connect to that pass key that you
already created  and then yeah you're
already created and then yeah you're
pretty good to you're pretty much good
to go you know that's that's basically
the whole authentication
[Music]
flow  for invoking a contract so so
flow for invoking a contract so so
now  so so now we're we actually we've
now so so now we're we actually we've
created this smart contract pass Keys
wallet that could actually invoke a
deployed contract right  so we have
deployed contract right so we have
we deployed this smart contract
called math basically and all it does is
it adds two integers right so  there's
it adds two integers right so there's
a do math function on the spark contract
that we're actually invoking using our
Pas key wallet right so when we call
this invoke function right we are
signing using our Pass Key our
fingerprint  creating that transaction
fingerprint creating that transaction
and then having launch tube helps shoot
off that transaction to the network died
Byer pasy wallet you know so I mean the
actual operation is kind of trivial but
the the idea behind it is pretty cool
right  it's kind of like the whole
right it's kind of like the whole
abstra account abstraction flow where
you have a smart wallet that could
actually  invoke a smart
contract  so digging into the code
contract so digging into the code
that's called there  so this do math
that's called there so this do math
function gets invoked right and  so we
function gets invoked right and so we
have this contract instant
where we're calling the do math
function right and then we're going to
sign it with our Pass key right  and
sign it with our Pass key right and
then after it's signed we're going to
use a pass key server and launch tube to
actually shoot off that transaction to
the network  and then we're going to
the network and then we're going to
dig into the xdr  of the response
dig into the xdr of the response
and see  the sum of the two numbers we
and see the sum of the two numbers we
added right that's a trivial operation
but as you imagine you can do basically
anything in spart contract function and
basically this is a nuts and bolts of
using a pass Keys wallet to sign a
transaction and invoke another smart
contract
operation  which is really amazing
operation which is really amazing
right  it's such a cool library that
right it's such a cool library that
Tyler built here  it's so like user
Tyler built here it's so like user
friendly and easy to use it's it's
pretty awesome  so let's say you
pretty awesome so let's say you
wanted to  add add another CER to
wanted to add add another CER to
your pass key wallet right  yeah I
your pass key wallet right yeah I
mean like that that's that's definitely
possible right you can just add you know
any any any classic Stell account as a
cider  what's dangerous there is
cider what's dangerous there is
you're basically granting them access to
do do anything right on your account
which is dangerous right  for
which is dangerous right for
I hope obvious reasons but yeah yeah
obviously like if you want to Grant
someone access to your account you want
to Grant fine grain access where you
explicitly control what you're what
you're kind of giving them  so so
you're kind of giving them so so
basically  since we're passing an
basically since we're passing an
empty signers limit limits map we're not
really con constraining the permissions
we're giving them right  so when we
we're giving them right so when we
when we sign this transaction and we set
it at the CER we're actually  allow
it at the CER we're actually allow
the CER to do anything on our behalf
for for that  pasy wallet right so
for for that pasy wallet right so
that's obviously not ideal
what's cool here is  we're adding
what's cool here is we're adding
what's called a policy CER like I'm not
sure this is currently on mainnet but it
it basically
the way I explain it is like it it
pro there's like like a a proxy contract
right so basically you have to go
through this proxy contract which kind
of constrains what abilities you're able
to take  on that invocation  so so
to take on that invocation so so
basically  you're you're granting a
basically you're you're granting a
very  fine grained  set of
very fine grained set of
permissions to The Cider  allowing
permissions to The Cider allowing
them to perform a specific activity
without giving them full access to your
account right so obviously that's that's
I that's way more ideal than granting
you know u a blank check to a Aigner so
so for attaching a policy CER U you'll
notice a difference here is we're
actually adding in an entry to the
signer limits right U and as you can see
we're passing in the the do math
deployed contract hash but then also
another contract called do math policy
and that policy is kind of the proxy
contract that kind of dictates  what
contract that kind of dictates what
you're able to do are that defined
doe math contract right so like the call
has to go through  that policy first
has to go through that policy first
which kind of constrains  what what
which kind of constrains what what
you're able to do  with that cider so
you're able to do with that cider so
this is kind of like  I would say
this is kind of like I would say
revolutionary I think yeah I think it's
a really cool concept you know you're
able to U kind kind of delegate  to
able to U kind kind of delegate to
another signer very fine grain
permissions you know which I think is
very powerful  and yeah it's just a
very powerful and yeah it's just a
really cool thing that Tyler built here
right  so like yeah if you want to
right so like yeah if you want to
check out some more Pass Key demos right
Elliot  he created this really cool
Elliot he created this really cool
dice roller game  and then is super
dice roller game and then is super
peach the classic  implementation
peach the classic implementation
there's a little demo built into Pas key
kit repo itself right  and if you need
kit repo itself right and if you need
a lot Tobe J token I think we do self
serve for test that but also just reach
out to us on
Discord cool
yeah okay great thank you that it was
very interesting  we we  we actually
very interesting we we we actually
did a similar presentation at Meridian
at the hackathon and a lot of the teams
chose to implement U pass which was
great to see because they had they had
limited time to to get their application
built and they decided a lot of them
decided to use pass keys and they got
pretty pretty smooth so so yeah
definitely go go check it out I think
it's it's  it's it's it's a huge
it's it's it's it's it's a huge
Improvement in in user experience
when we talk about the  when we talk
when we talk about the when we talk
about web three apps okay great  I
about web three apps okay great I
will now invite Z up and  he'll talk
will now invite Z up and he'll talk
talk about the  about the
talk about the about the
increasing soran limits so please go
ahead yeah can you hear me yeah perfect
okay yeah I don't have a presentation
today so I'll just  speaking to you
today so I'll just speaking to you
but   Carson should be dropping a
but Carson should be dropping a
couple links to some documents that'll
be helpful yeah I'm  my name is sart s
be helpful yeah I'm my name is sart s
I'm a software engineer on the core team
and today I'll be going over a proposal
from the ecosystem to increase some
sorond limits  and for cont from some
sorond limits and for cont from some
context  suron transactions are
context suron transactions are
subject to various settings and Lins
that can be updated with the validator
vote similar to our protocol
upgrade so there were three separate
proposals to increase limits from the
ecosystem and slp1  which there's a
ecosystem and slp1 which there's a
link in the in the comments below  is
link in the in the comments below is
a combination of all three and you can
see the proposers in the author section
of the
SLP  so first I'll go over the Ledger
SLP so first I'll go over the Ledger
entry limits so the read entry and right
entry limits are being increased for
both the transaction level and Ledger
level limits the max Ledger entries that
can be read in a transaction is
increasing from 40 to 100 and the max
Ledger entries that can be written in a
transaction is  written is increasing
transaction is written is increasing
from 25 to 50 so these increases will
allow  defi protocols like like Hoops
allow defi protocols like like Hoops
Finance  Sor Swap and blend to scale
Finance Sor Swap and blend to scale
up and perform more complex transactions
that they aren't able aren't able to do
today with  current
today with current
limits so to make sure that the the
network can actually handle the
increased runtime from these increased
limits we developed a command line
benchmarking tool in Stellar core that
lets us measure Ledger apply times using
different sorbon settings so the tool
will  generate a a worst case
will generate a a worst case
transaction set that uses as much of the
resources available as possible apply
those transactions and then just records
the apply time and the the SLP has some
more information and results from this
testing So based on the benchmarking
Sellar core can handle the increase the
transaction level minuts limits I
mentioned as well as increasing The
Ledger level limits to maintain the
current 5x ratio between the transaction
and Ledger level
limits  now the last limit being
limits now the last limit being
increased is the max transaction events
size limit which is the combined size of
the events that can be emitted within
the single transaction
and the current limit is 8 kilobytes
and this limit is low enough that
some protocols like a squid router will
run into the limit when publishing
payloads that they don't want to manage
offchain so the proposal bumps it to 16
kilobytes a benchmarking this increase
in Stellar core however isn't very
valuable Stellar core just adds the
events to the transaction meta and
writes it to a pipe when I did my
benchmarking and I increased the the
events limit I saw no  hit to
events limit I saw no hit to
Performance cuz in seller core
specifically so it's more relevant to
hear from Downstream consumers to get
their opinion on if they can handle the
increased theoretical load and I say
theoretical because in practice  we
theoretical because in practice we
don't see large amounts of data emitted
through events at the moment  so I
through events at the moment so I
guess our ask here is for feedback on if
any of you expect issues from this
from this increase to the events limit
so all of the increased limits from
slp1 have been apply to test met  so
slp1 have been apply to test met so
feel free to try them out and I also
wanted to mention that the  SLP
wanted to mention that the SLP
process is new and still being improved
but the end goal is to allow anyone
in the ecosystem to propose new settings
and evaluate them using the tooling I
mentioned currently the tooling is is
still being worked on and we have we
don't have a lot of documentation for it
yet but we're hoping soon that all this
all all this will be good enough
for  someone in the ecosystem to go
for someone in the ecosystem to go
through the entire the entire proposal
and evaluation process without our help
so and the current SLP proposal
format can be found at the read me in
that Stellar protocol link that was that
was dropped in the
comments  so yeah that's all I had for
comments so yeah that's all I had for
today if there are any questions let me
know great thank you yeah if if there's
any questions  please  drop them in
any questions please drop them in
the in the comments  this is
the in the comments this is
something that we are going to try to
experiment with going forward when we do
some upgrades and when we do some
updates and change limits and things
like that  just to have a quick have a
like that just to have a quick have a
quick talk about it here in the in the
weekly developer meetings  next week
weekly developer meetings next week
we actually going to talk about  the
we actually going to talk about the
protocol 22 and and some of the some of
the new features that was launched there
that was it but that's what we had
for for the meeting today  thank you
for for the meeting today thank you
to to both our presenters for for taking
the time to to to speak here and  yeah
the time to to to speak here and yeah
I'll see everyone else next Thursday
thank you